# Popularized scientific English summary - 1000 words

The miniaturization of electronic circuits continues nowadays and sees the more recent technologies being applied to diverse fields of application such as automotive.
Very dense and small integrated circuits are interesting for economical reasons, because they are cheaper to manufacture in mass and can pack more functionalities with elevated performances.
On the other hand, reducing the size of integrated circuits makes them more fragile electrically.

In the automotive world, there is also the new trend of fully autonomous driving, that is seeing tremendous progress recently.
Autonomous vehicles must take decisions and perform critical actions such as braking or steering the wheel.
Those decisions are taken by electronic modules, that have now very high responsabilities with regards of our safety.
It is important to ensure that those modules will operate smoothly no matter the kind of disturbances they can be exposed to.

The automotive world is quite harsh in terms of stresses for electronic systems.
A running engine generates plenty of mechanical and thermal stress, that wear-out electronic devices in the long run.
Electronic system are also exposed to a wide range of electrical stresses inside vehicles, due to many diverse sources.
Transient disturbances can be generated by natural phenomena, by the vehicle itself or some of its components.
Turning an engine on creates large disturbances inside the car's electrical network, and can damage unprotected devices.
The other major source of electrical stress comes from a natural phenomenon called the Electrostatic Discharge (ESD).

An electrostatic discharge is a sudden flow of electricity, happening when two objects have a different and important charge.
The discharge is extremely short but has very large amplitude.
It is common to record amplitudes in the range of thousands of volts and tens of amperes, making it a very serious threat for electronic systems.
Electrostatic discharge can destroy electronic components, or disturb them during their normal operation.
In this research work, we focus on the second kind of issues.
It is relatively recent and becomes increasingly important in the automotive field.

Electronic modules can be disturbed in very diverse ways leading to a fault.
After a disturbance, functionnality can be momentarily lost and recovers immediately without noticeable impact.
In more severe scenario, some minor functionalities such as entertainment systems are frozen, requiring an user intervention to recover, by restarting the vehicle for instance.
The same kind of issue with airbags or assisted braking is much more dangereous.
Vehicles are very complex systems, composed of a multitude of devices of different scales.
Tiny integrated circuits often control large equipments such as alternator-regulator, the braking system, or the injection of the engine.
To guarantee before manufacturing that a module and its components will perform their duty correctly, new analysis and prediction methods are required against soft-failures caused by electrostatic discharges.

In this research, different approches have explored and proposed towards that goal.
It covers a wide range of techniques, from simulation tools that permit to predict the behavior of a circuit before it is manufactured to measurement methods used to identify faults and localize them.
A strong emphasis is put on determing what fraction of a discharge actually reaches the critical and fragile integrated circuit.
Quantifying the disturbance is a key first step for understanding the fault inside the circuit and reproducing it with simulation tools.

After those methods were presented, the conclusion summarizes the work achieved during the PhD, highlights the most notable discoveries, and identifies follow-up work and research topics that could be worth pursuing.
