# English summary - 4000 words

The miniaturization of electronic circuits continues nowadays and the more recent and fragile technologies are now spreading to diverse fields of application such as automotive.
Reduction of technologies feature size yields increased volumes, smaller manufacturing costs and weight and higher performances.
On the other hand, denser circuits are more fragile and tolerate smaller ranges of voltage and current, in both static and dynamic regimes.
With the thinnest technology nodes, it is now common to find supply voltages near 1V, resulting in very small noise margins and inreased susceptibility to electrical disturbances.

In the automotive world, the new trend of assisted or fully autonomous driving is seeing tremendous progress recently.
Autonomous vehicles must take decisions and perform critical actions such as braking or steering the wheel.
Those features are implemented for safety purposes and put very high responsabilities on electronic modules.
Those features require more computing power, more sensing capabilities and more data to exchange.
As a consequence, the amount of electronic modules in vehicles is growing quickly.

Size reduction and increased responsabilities raises multiple issues when electronic circuits are functionning in harsh operating environments.
This is the case of the automotive world.
A running engine generates plenty of mechanical and thermal stress, that wear-out electronic devices in the long run.
Electronic system are also exposed to a wide range of electrical stresses inside vehicles, due to many diverse sources.
Transient disturbances can be generated by natural phenomena, by the vehicle itself or some of its components.
When the engine is turned on for instance, the battery voltage can drop very low because of the amount of current drawn by the ignition.
This voltage drop can affect electronic systems and damage them.
This kind of disturbance is generated by the vehicle itself.
The other major source of electrical stress comes from a natural phenomenon, called Electrostatic Discharge (ESD).

An electrostatic discharge is the sudden flow of electricity between two objects of different charge.
It is the result of a local accumulation of electrostatic potential.
When a large enough potential difference is reached, a very rapid and violent discharge occurs.
It is common to record amplitudes in the range of thousands of volts and tens of amperes, making it a very serious threat for electronic systems.

In summary, the amount of electronic devices is increasing and in the same time they become more sensitive.
Systems are complex to study and analyse, have more responsabilities with regards of our safety, and the surrounding environment is very harsh.
Studying and predicting all kinds of failures is important in order to avoid them early.
In the ESD field, there are two kinds of failures to consider.
The hardware failure, or hard-failure, is when an electronic device is permanently damaged.
There can be multiple signatures, such as apparition of minor defects, important variation of intrisic properties or complete destruction.
Semiconductor devices are particularly sensitive to electrostatic discharges and require specific protection.

In this document, a new class of failures is studied, motivated by new requirements for operating safety.
Soft-failure, or functional failure, is when an electronic device fails temporarily to perform its function, because of an electrical disturbance.
Electronic modules can be disturbed in very diverse ways leading to a functional fault.
After a disturbance, functionnality can be momentarily lost and recovers immediately without noticeable impact.
In more severe scenario, some minor functionalities such as entertainment systems are frozen, requiring an user intervention to recover, in the form of restarting the vehicle for instance.
The same kind of issue with airbags or assisted braking would be considered a lot more severe, because user safety can no longer be guaranteed.
Functional failures caused by electrostatic discharges raise new kind of challenges for the analysis, mostly due to the inherent scale factor of electronic systems.
A functional failure may happen because a few transistors inside a chip were disturbed, but the consequences can be visible much higher in the hierarchy at the scale of an entire vehicle.
To guarantee before manufacturing that a module and its components will perform their duty correctly, new analysis and prediction methods are required against soft-failures caused by electrostatic discharges.

Research on the topic has started about a decade ago, and now generates increasing interest in the industry.
So far, the litterature is focused on system-level analysis.
There is currently no real work at the component level or studies performed inside the design of an integrated circuit.
The research work presented in this document explores the topic of functiona failure at silicon level and tries to provide some new guidelines for future research.

In the first chapter, it is detailled how electrostatic discharges physically appear, how to reproduce them in laboratory conditions and summarizes the recent litterature on ESD testing.
This preliminary work highlights how functional failures appear and how they impact electronic devices, and the conclusion is that the amount of silicon-level studies and research on the topicremains small.

In the second chapter, a modeling method is presented for simulating ESD waveforms up to the integrated circuit inputs.
The first challenge for understanding soft-failures at silicon-level is to determine what fraction of an incoming discharge actually reaches the integrated circuit.
Between the injection point of a stress and the disturbed circuit, many devices are connected such as cables and discrete devices.
Each element interacts with the discharge, absorbs a part of its current or changes the waveform.
A model library of common electrical elements found in ESD testing environment has been constructed and is detailed.
It serves afterward to model a complex pulse generator with high accuracy.
A new test generator was developed using the modelling method as a base tool.
It overcomes issues found when debugging silicon-level failures with system level ESD testers.
It produces the same compliant waveform than those standards, but with some interesting advantages for use during investigation.

A case of soft-failure in an integrated circuit is explained in chapter 3.
In a first phase, measurement data is obtained at the board level and the failure is explained.
Simulations are ran to understand how failures appear, and more specifically how a short electrical event can disturb an integrated circuit for a long period of time.
In a second phase, the integrated function is placed onto a custom testchip.
Specific on-silicon structures were designed to gather measurement data on electrical nets that are not physically accessible.
All these measurements are performed for the purpose of estimating the accuracy of integrated circuit ESD simulations.
There are two main potential sources of error that are checked.
Silicon technology device models are not designed to function for extremely fast transient transient disturbances.
Also, standard simulations do not take parasitic devices into account, such as metal track resistances and parasitic couplings.
Measurement data is confronted to simulations in order to verify the validity of models.
Analysis of the failure led to the development of a testchip, to put on silicon the same failing function but with a more convenient environment for measurement and investigation.

When issues are discovered late in the testing lab, analysis is performed manually, by trial and error, searching inside the design why the function is failing.
It is a complex and time-consuming process.
The core research of this work focuses on proposing new analysis methods and tools for electrical simulations.
It is detailled in chapter 4.

The conclusion summarizes the work achieved during the PhD, highlights the most notable discoveries, and identifies follow-up work and research topics that could be worth pursuing.
